>>Wade: Hi.
I'm Wade Wingler with the Indata Project at
Easter Seals Crossroad in Indiana.
Accessibility in iPads are
something we spend a lot of time on here and
Josh is going to show us the Tecla Switch
Interface.
>>Josh: Hi.
I'm Josh Reckelhoff.
We are going to talk about accessing the iPad
with a single switch.
It could be used for
basically anyone, but mainly this is going
to be for an individual in a wheelchair.
The product is made by Komodo and this
box over here is called the Tecla Shield and
it is actually blue tooth connected to our
iPad
over here.
My big orange and
blue thing over here is my switch and right
now we are going to use a single switch for
someone that doesn't have the
ability to touch two switches at once.
one switch we will go over how to do that.
Connected to this Tecla Shield is also
a joy stick that could be mounted to a wheelchair
and used to cycle through different applications
as well.
So, that's how
we are going to get started.
I have, the device itself, the Tecla Shield
does need to be powered through a usb cable.
That's
why it's hooked up to my computer and our
switch is hooked in to one of our ports there.
Now there is a secondary port for
two switches like I said.
But, right now we're just going to use one.
Alrighty.
So, if I tap a single tap here (ipad computer
voice talks, "itunes"....).
It is actually going to scan through everything
as I touch it.
And if you hold it for a certain
amount of seconds that's going to give a different
command.
So, holding it for 1 second is going to allow
me to select
something and two seconds is going to allow
me to toggle the keyboard on.
And you can scan through the keyboard just
like we
did with the applications by tapping the switch
once like we do here.
So, I held it down for two seconds and it
selected
our music for us.
And we can still scan any page on the iPad.
This also works for the iPhone.
The interesting thing about
this device is it does require you to have
voice over on as well as blue tooth connection.
So, to get to your voice over you
are going to want to go in to settings, general,
and then down to the bottom of the page in
accessibility and you will see
voice over and just slide that button on and
it will turn the voice over on.
But, once you are blue tooth connected and
you
have the voice over on you're good to go.
The last thing about this device is it comes
with these Linklocks arms and you can
actually use what they call dual lock velcro
and attach the iPad to this and have it clamped
on to a wheelchair or what not
that way the person can just roll up and view
their iPad.
They don't have to have it resting on this
table which may be
difficult for them if they can't hunch forward
or look down to see it.
It can be right where it needs to be in their
field of vision.
So, this also came with it and to show you
what the velcro looks like we've got two pieces
of adhesive that
come together.
So, one piece goes on the iPad.
The other piece goes on the clear plate and
they are connected.
And that is my tech
tip for the day about the Tecla Shield.
>>Wade: So, isn't that a cool way to access
your iPad?
That's your tech tip for this week.
I'm Wade Wingler with the Indata
Project at Easter Seals Crossroads in Indiana.